
Abu Dhabi University | Undergraduate Catalog 2025 - 2026

required to prepare. In this report students to a broad range of practical issues, materials, fuels, and structure. engineering skills into operational a well-rounded learning experience as electrical engineers. The two- and presentation, students will detail experiences that reflect the diverse Students also explore alternative engineering prototypes. The projects that encapsulates the realities of semester structure enables students their experiences, learning outcomes, nature of renewable &#x26; sustainable chemical reactions for powering cars will emphasize problem definition, working on large-scale, complex to fully realize their projects, providing challenges faced, and solutions energy engineering field. A significant in a competitive setting in a mini- design conceptualization, modeling, engineering projects. a unique opportunity to experience devised. They will communicate part of this course is the internship project. fabrication and system integration. RSN450B - Renewable &#x26; the complete life cycle of a complex their findings and reflections in a report and presentation that students RSN460B - Hybrid Smart Vehicles A combination of 1 hour of lecturing Sustainable Energy Engineering engineering project, from initial comprehensive are required to prepare. In this report – MEC Design and 1 hour of laboratory experiments Design Project II conceptualization to final execution their experiences in presentations. and presentation, students will detail are used to teach the students the and evaluation.

This enhances their communication their experiences, learning outcomes, Credit Hours: 2 knowledge and skills needed to build Credit Hours: 2 Pre-requisite: RSN460A their vehicles. Topics covered include Pre-requisite: RSN450A This course covers a variety of topics challenges faced, and solutions The objective of this project-based lane finding, behavior cloning, object This course builds on the concepts, related to project quality engineering devised. They will communicate course is to provide students with detection, and PID control. Students skills, and progress acquired and including quality improvement their findings and reflections in a comprehensive report and present a guided experience on designing use Matlab for the lab and project achieved in RSN450A Renewable techniques, and applications of their experiences in presentations. hybrid smart vehicles. It is part of components of the course. &#x26; Sustainable Energy Engineering comprehensive project design and This enhances their communication a three-course series starting with RSN450A - Renewable &#x26; Design Project I. It continues to development within Renewable &#x26; and analytical skills and helps them RSN460A where students have Sustainable Energy Engineering engage students in concepts, Sustainable Energy Engineering. introspect and understand their selected their major hybrid vehicles Design Project I techniques, and applications of strengths, weaknesses, and areas materials, fuel and battery systems. This course builds on the concepts comprehensive project design and of interest in the field. Additionally, In this course, students will design, and skills acquired in courses development within Renewable &#x26; students will analyze the impact of manufacture and assemble the throughout the Renewable &#x26; Sustainable Energy Engineering. renewable &#x26; sustainable energy mechanical parts in the car. Student Sustainable Energy Engineering This course continues the topics engineering on society, the will select appropriate engine to program. It is the first part of a covered in the first part, including environment, and the economy, operate the vehicle. The projects two-part sequence and requires advanced problem definition, providing them with a more holistic integrate various engineering students to be at the senior level. design conceptualization, modeling, understanding of their role as future skills into operational engineering It introduces students to concepts, fabrication, and system integration engineers.

RSN399ii - Internship in prototypes. The projects will techniques, and applications of in both software and hardware Renewable &#x26; Sustainable emphasize problem definition, comprehensive project design and aspects. The centerpiece of the Energy Engineering II design conceptualization, modeling, development within Renewable &#x26; course remains the design project. Credit Hours: 1 fabrication and system integration. Sustainable Energy Engineering Students continue their work from Pre-requisite: RSN399i This course provides students with a program. It is the first part of a Renewable &#x26; Sustainable Energy “Internship in Renewable &#x26; guided experience on designing two-part sequence and requires Engineering Design Project I and Sustainable Energy Engineering hybrid smart vehicles. It is part of students to be at the senior level. develop a prototype based on the II” is designed to expand on the a three-course series starting with In this course, students will design, research conducted in Capstone knowledge and skills acquired RSN460A where students need to manufacture and assemble the I, utilizing various software tools RSN399i Internship in Renewable design and develop their hybrid mechanical parts in the car. Student and hardware components to &#x26; Sustainable Energy Engineering vehicles. The course focuses on will select appropriate engine to refine, finalize, and optimize their I, and in the Renewable &#x26; selecting and investigating materials operate the vehicle. The projects operational engineering prototypes/ Sustainable Energy Engineering and power sources. The course integrate various engineering systems. This process may involve program. This course provides integrates various engineering skills skills into operational engineering strict testing, troubleshooting, and students with an opportunity to into an operational engineering prototypes. The projects will iterative design improvements to practically apply their theoretical prototype. Developing the hybrid emphasize problem definition, ensure the prototype meets the concepts in the field of renewable smart vehicle at the end of the three- design conceptualization, project objectives and standards. &#x26; sustainable energy engineering course series will emphasize modeling, fabrication and system Students will also gain experience in within a professional industry problem definition, design integration. A combination of 1 delivering professional presentations setting. The topics covered are conceptualization, modeling, hour of lecturing and 1 hour of and composing detailed written dictated by the nature of the fabrication and system integration laboratory experiments in each course reports, focusing on the design organization and the specific work such as hardware design, software are used to teach the students the enhancements and challenges assigned to the students. This development, network architecture, knowledge and skills needed to overcome during the project’s hands-on experience can encompass circuit analysis, control systems, and design and build their vehicles. second phase. Further, students various aspects of renewable &#x26; power distribution. In the course Topics covered include chassis will deepen their understanding sustainable energy engineering of their internship, students will manufacturing, body manufacturing, of the societal, environmental, and such as hardware design, software embark on a well-planned course gearbox, engine and braking economic implications of their development, network architecture, of action jointly devised by the assemblies. engineering solutions, facilitating circuit analysis, control systems, and site-supervisor and the college- RSN460C - Hybrid Smart Vehicles a comprehensive understanding power distribution. In the course supervisor. This plan is intended to – AI Design of their role and responsibilities of their internship, students will expose the students to a broad range Credit Hours: 2 in the engineering profession.

Pre-requisite: RSN460B The objective of this project-based course is to provide students with a guided experience on designing hybrid smart vehicles. It is part of a three-course series starting with RSN460A and RSN460B where students have designed and developed their hybrid vehicles and ending with this course to add AI and Computer Vision powered autonomous driving capabilities. The projects integrate various engineering skills into an operational engineering prototype. Developing the hybrid smart vehicle at the end of the three-course series will emphasize problem definition, design conceptualization, modeling, fabrication and system integration. A combination of 1 hour of lecturing and 1 hour of laboratory experiments in each course are used to teach the students the knowledge and skills needed to design and build their vehicles. Topics covered include history of hybrid cars, environmental considerations, and the integration of AI technologies.

Abu Dhabi University | Undergraduate Catalog 2025 - 2026
